.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/fax/./man/RCS/faxalter.1,v 1.22 1995/04/08 21:35:38 sam Rel $
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1995 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1995 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXALTER 1 "April 3, 1995"
.SH NAME
faxalter \- alter parameters of a \*(Fx job queued for transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxalter
[
.I options
]
.IR id ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxalter
changes parameters of one or more \*(Fx jobs that
are queued for transmission.
Numerous parameters can be altered:
.sp .5
.RS
.nf
\(bu the time to send a job,
\(bu the time to kill a job,
\(bu the modem to use,
\(bu the notification scheme,
\(bu the scheduling priority for the job, and
\(bu the maximum number of times to try sending the job.
.fi
.RE
.sp .5
An 
.I id
is a number that identifies a
.I job
(default) or
.I "job group"
submitted to \*(Fx; these numbers are printed by
.IR sendfax (1)
when jobs are queued for transmission.
Job and job group identifiers can also be obtained from
.IR faxstat (1).
Users can only alter jobs that they
have queued; except the
.I fax
user and the super-user who can alter any job.
By default,
.I faxalter
contacts the facsimile server on the host specified
in the
.B FAXSERVER
environment variable.
This can be overridden with the
.B \-h
option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-a " time"
Specify a new time to send a job.
The syntax for specifying a time is the same as used
by
.IR sendfax (1)
(and
.IR at (1)).
.TP 10
.B \-g
Interpret each
.I id
as a
.IR "job group identifier" .
A job group identifier is the number assigned by \*(Fx
to each group of jobs submitted together.
This number is printed by
.I sendfax
when jobs are submitted.
.TP 10
.BI \-h " host"
Force the server to be contacted on a specific
.IR host .
The
.I host
may be either a symbolic name or a network address.
If no
.B \-h
option is supplied,
.I faxalter
uses the
.B FAXSERVER
environment variable to identify the \*(Fx server to
which the jobs should be directed.
If no server is specified then
.I faxalter
attempts to contact a server on the local host.
.TP 10
.BI \-k " time"
Specify a new time to kill a job;
the syntax is the same as used for the 
.B \-a
option.
.TP 10
.BI \-m " modem"
Assign/reassign the jobs to the specified.
Specifying ``any'' for the modem causes the jobs to be
scheduled for any available modem.
.TP 10
.B \-p
The jobs should be
.IR pushed ;
that is, they should be sent immediately
(NB: this is equivalent to ``\-a now''.)
.TP 10
.BI \-P " pri"
Set the scheduling priority for the specified jobs.
The priority is an integer value in the range 0-255;
lower values give a job higher priority.
The default scheduling priority for a job is 127
and priorities are recalculated after each attempt to
process a job.
.TP 10
.BI \-t " tries"
Set the maximum number of times the
server should call the remote fax machine.
.TP 10
.BI \-n " scheme"
Select a notification scheme to use for the specified jobs.
Possible schemes are:
``\fInone\fP'' for no notification (default),
``\fIwhen done\fP'' for notification when the job is completed,
``\fIwhen requeued\fP'' for notification when the job is requeued
after a failed transmission attempt.
The
.BR \-Q ,
.BR \-D ,
and
.B \-R
options are shorthand for these notification schemes,
respectively.
One can also leave off ``\fIwhen\fP'' when using the
.B \-n
option; e.g., ``\fIdone\fP'' instead of ``\fIwhen done\fP''.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B "Job %s not altered: it was not queued."
The specified job was not found in the server's queue.
.PP
.B "Job %s not altered: open failed; check SYSLOG."
The server was unable to do some necessary operation on the 
remote host and so could not alter the job.
More information about what went wrong can be found in the
.IR syslogd (1M)
log file on the server's machine.
.PP
.B "Job %s not altered: could not establish server process owner."
A request was made by the ``fax'' user to alter
a job that it did submit.
This request was not accepted because
the server was unable to deduce the identity under which
it was executing.  That is, there was no password file
entry for the server's effective user id.
This (usually) indicates that the entry in the file
.I /usr/etc/inetd.conf
on the remove machine is setup wrong; see
.IR faxd.recv (1M)
for more information.
.PP
.B "Job %s not altered: you neither own it nor are the fax user."
A request was made to alter a job that the user does not own
(and the user is not the ``fax'' user).
.PP
.B "Service refused; you do not have permission to use the fax server from %s."
The client is not permitted to manipulate
jobs on this server from the indicated host.
Only those hosts and users listed in the file
.B etc/hosts
on the server machine are permitted to manipulate jobs.
.SH BUGS
.I faxalter
must be run on the same host on which the job was
submitted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax (1),
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR faxrm (1),
.IR faxstat (1),
.IR faxd.recv (1M)
