.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/fax/./man/RCS/faxstat.1,v 1.20 1995/04/08 21:35:51 sam Rel $
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1995 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1995 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXSTAT 1 "December 5, 1994"
.SH NAME
faxstat \- display \*(Fx status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxstat
[
.I options
] [
.I jobs ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxstat
reports the status of \*(Fx servers, including (potentially)
the status of the send and receive queues.
Server status information indicates the state of the
server (idle, sending, receiving, etc.)
and the phone number that is associated with the fax modem.
The send queue report gives the status of facsimile jobs
queued for transmission:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
the job identifier,
.IP \(bu 3
the modem the job is bound to (or ``any'' if the job
can be sent though any modem),
.IP \(bu 3
the destination (phone number) of the job,
.IP \(bu 3
the time to send the job, or a blank field if the job is being
processed or is to be sent immediately,
.IP \(bu 3
the senders' name,
.IP \(bu 3
and status information about the job (typically the reason why
a previous attempt failed).
.RE
.PP
The receive queue report lists the facsimile documents
that have been received and are awaiting delivery; it
includes:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
the phone number of the sender (if supplied),
.IP \(bu 3
the date and time at which the job was received,
.IP \(bu 3
the number of pages and their size,
.IP \(bu 3
and the quality (resolution) at which the document was transmitted.
.RE
.PP
When invoked without options,
.I faxstat
reports status of the server and the status of
jobs queued by the user that ran the program; the options
described below can be used to override this behaviour.
.PP
The status of specific jobs may be
requested by specifying the
.I "job identifiers"
on the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-a
Display the status of
.I all
jobs queued for transmission on the specified servers.
.TP 10
.BI \-h " host"
Force the server to be contacted on a specific
.IR host .
The
.I host
may be either a symbolic name or a network address.
If no
.B \-h
option is supplied,
.I faxstat
uses the
.SM FAXSERVER
environment variable to identify the \*(Fx server to
which the jobs should be directed.
If no server is specified then
.I faxstat
attempts to contact a server on the local host.
.IP
Multiple servers' status may be displayed by specifying
the
.B \-h
option multiple times.
.TP 10
.B \-i
Display additional, informational, status
information for each specified server.
This status typically has information such as the \*(Fx
version, the physical location of the server machine, and
an administrative contact for the server.
.TP 10
.B \-r
Display the receive queue status for each server.
.TP 10
.B \-s
Supress the normal display of jobs in the send queue.
.TP 10
.BI \-u " user"
Display status only for jobs submitted by
.IR user .
This option may be specified multiple times to get job
status information for multiple users.
.TP 10
.B \-v
Trace the protocol exchanges between
.I faxstat
and the
.I faxd.recv
processes on the standard output.
.TP 10
.B \-D
Force
.I faxstat
to obtain protocol information from the standard input,
rather than from a server process.
This option is used for debugging.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${LIBDATA}/pagesizes    'u
${LIBDATA}/pagesizes	page size database
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax (1),
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR faxalter (1),
.IR faxrm (1)
