.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/fax/man/RCS/status.4f,v 1.6 1994/06/24 02:32:04 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" FlexFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.ds Fx \fIFlexFAX\fP
.TH STATUS 4F "June 6, 1994"
.SH NAME
status \- server status database
.SH DESCRIPTION
Files in the
.B etc/status
directory in the \*(Fx
spooling area contain status information about each running server.
Files are named according to the modem being serviced.
Files without a suffix contain a single line of
.SM ASCII
text that indicates what the server is currently doing:
``Running and idle'', ``Sending to ...'', ``Answering the phone'', etc.
Files with a ``.info'' suffix contain static server information such
as the identity of the administrator and are returned untouched to
users through the
.IR faxstat (1)
program.
Files with a ``.shut'' suffix indicate servers that are currently
.IR shutdown ,
i.e. not accepting outbound facsimile jobs\-such files contain a single
line of text that indicates the reason why the server is shutdown.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxd (1M),
.IR faxd.recv (1M),
.IR faxstat (1)
