.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/fax/./man/RCS/textfmt.1,v 1.17 1995/04/08 21:36:41 sam Rel $
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1995 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1995 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH TEXTFMT 1 "December 5, 1994"
.SH NAME
textfmt \- convert text to \*(Ps\(tm for facsimile transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${LIBEXEC}/textfmt
[
.I options
] [
.IR files ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I textfmt
takes
.SM ASCII
text and generates formatted \*(Ps\(tm
suitable for facsimile transmission.
It is usually invoked as a filter program by the
.IR sendfax (1)
program.
Input files may be specified on the command line.
If none are given, then
.I textfmt
will read from standard input.
.PP
By default,
.I textfmt
will generate an output document that is formtted with a single
vertical column of text, set in a 10 point fixed width font, and
with a simple page header that consists of the file name, last
modification date, and the page number.
Pages are generated according to the default page dimensions
(see
.IR pagesizes (4F)).
When multi-column output is requested, text is set by default with
a 7 point fixed width font.
.SH OPTIONS
Many of the options to
.I textfmt
have been chosen for compatibility with the Adobe Systems'
.I enscript
program; other options are for features that are not provided by
.IR enscript .
.TP
.B \-1
Set text in one column.
.TP
.B \-2
Set text two columns.
.TP
.B \-B
Suppress page headers.
.TP
.B \-c
Clip long text lines instead of wrapping them at page margins.
.TP
.B \-D
Do not use
.SM "ISO 8859-1"
encoding in the generated \*(Ps.
.TP
.BI \-f " font"
Set text using the \*(Ps font named
.IR font .
.TP
.B \-G
Use a gaudy-style page header.
.TP
.BI \-m " cols"
Set text in
.I cols
columns.
.TP
.BI \-M "\fBl=\fP#,\fBr=\fP#,\fBt=\fP#,\fBb=\fP#"
Set the page margins; the default margins are:
left and right .25 inch, top .85 inch, bottom .5 inch.
.TP
.B \-o
Draw an outline around each column of text; the specified number 
defines the width of the line that is drawn.
.TP
.BI \-p " pts"
Set text using fonts with
.I pts
point size.
.TP
.B \-r
Set pages rotated by 90 degrees (in ``Landscape mode'').
.TP
.B \-R
Set pages unrotated (in ``Portrait mode'').
.TP
.BI \-s " size"
Set the output size according to the named page size.
Images are normally created with a system-default page size
(usually letter-size pages, 8.5" by 11", for sites in North America).
Alternate page sizes are specified symbolically using either
the name or abbreviation of an entry in the
.IR pagesizes (4F)
database; e.g.
.I a3
(ISO A3),
.I a4
(ISO A4),
.I a5
(ISO A5),
.I a6
(ISO A6),
.I b4
(ISO B4),
.I na-let
(North American Letter),
.I us-leg
(American Legal),
.I us-led
(American Ledger),
.I us-exe
(American Executive),
.I jp-let
(Japanese Letter),
and
.I jp-leg
(Japanese Legal).
Comparisons are case-insensitive and any match of a
substring of the full page-size name is sufficient; e.g. ``legal'' would
match ``American Legal''.
.TP
.B \-U
Reverse collate pages; that is the last page will appear first
in the resultant \*(Ps, then the next-to-last page, etc.
.TP
.BI \-V " spacing"
Set the line height; the default height is 1.2 x point size.
.SH NOTES
If
.I textfmt
is unable to locate font metric information for a font, then it
will use a fixed-width metric that is 60% of the text point size;
this metric will almost certainly result
in incorrectly formatted \*(Ps.
.PP
.I textfmt
is derived from the
.I lptops
program written by Don Beebe.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${LIBDATA}/pagesizes    'u
.nf
${LIBDATA}/pagesizes	page size database
${AFMDIR}	font metric files
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax (1),
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR pagesizes (4F)
