.\"	$Id: jobcontrol.1m 1155 2013-04-26 22:39:33Z faxguy $
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH JOBCONTROL ${MANNUM1_8} "Mar 27, 2006"
.SH NAME
jobcontrols \- per-job controls for \*(Fx servers
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*(Fx configuration parameter
.B JobControlCmd
specifies the script that is used to apply 
per-job controls on job characteristics
such as the time-of-day to place a call.
.PP
The controls program is passed the respective job ID number as the first and only argument.
.PP
The controls program should produce a simple line-based
.SM ASCII
output containing a series of records of the form:
.sp .5
.RS
param: value
.RE
.sp .5
which is parsed the same manner as all HylaFAX config files.
Parameter values are parsed exactly as specified in
.IR hylafax-config (${MANNUM4_5});
i.e. values with embedded whitespace may be enclosed in quote marks (``"'').
.PP
All output on a line following a ``#'' character is ignored.
.PP
The output order is important.
The last parameter value in the output overrides any previous values in the output.
Otherwise a default value is used from the
.I faxq
configuration file.
.PP
The following parameters may be output on a per-job basis;
consult
.IR hylafax-config (${MANNUM4_5})
for a description of each parameter
(except
.BR Modem ,
.BR Priority ,
and
.B RejectNotice
which are described below).
.sp .5
.nf
.ta \w'MaxConcurrentCalls    'u +\w'integer    'u +\w'\fIunlimited\fP    'u
\fBTag	Type	Default	Description\fP
MaxConcurrentCalls	integer	\s-11\s+1	max concurrent jobs to process for a destination
MaxDials	integer	\s-1\fIunlimited\fP\s+1	max phone calls to make to transmit a job
MaxSendPages	integer	\s-1\fIunlimited\fP\s+1	max pages to permit in a send
MaxTries	integer	\s-13\s+1	max attempts to transmit a job
Modem	string	\s-1Any\s+1	ModemGroup to use for destination
Notify	string	\-	notification override for job
Priority	integer	\-	priority to use for job
Proxy	string	\-	proxy server to which the job should be delivered
ProxyUser	string	\-	authentication username for the proxy server
ProxyPass	string	\-	authentication password for the proxy server
ProxyMailbox	string	\-	E-Mail address for job notification
ProxyNotification	string	\s-1none\s+1	notification request
ProxyJobTag	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	jobtag for proxy job
ProxyLogMode	octal	\s-10600\s+1	protection to use for logs retrieved from proxy server
ProxyTries	integer	\s-1\-1\s+1	number of tries proxy should attempt
ProxyDials	integer	\s-1\-1\s+1	number of dials proxy should attempt
ProxyReconnects	integer	\s-1\5\s+1	number of reconnections to proxy for any job submisison
RejectNotice	string	\-	rejection notice for transmit job
RewriteFaxname	string	\-	replace faxname in job request with this
RewriteFaxnumber	string	\-	replace faxnumber in job request with this
TimeOfDay	string	\s-1Any\s+1	default time-of-day restrictions
VRes	integer	\-	Vertical resolution
UseXVRes	integer	\-	Usage of extended resolutions
UseColor	integer	\-	Usage of color
.fi
.PP
The
.B Modem
parameter controls which
.B ModemGroup
is used in sending faxes to the destination.  If the user
assigns a
.B ModemGroup
for a specific job where all modems are outside of this
.B ModemGroup
matching a destination, then the value of
.B Modem
is overridden by the user's assignment.  Likewise, if the user
assigns a
.B ModemGroup
for a specific job where some, but not all, of the modems are
included in this
.B ModemGroup
matching a destination, then the value of
.B Modem
is overridden by the inclusive set of modems found in both.
.PP
The
.B Notify
parameter allows an override of whatever notification request
the client requested in the job.  Options are ``none'',  ``when requeued'',
``when done'', and ``when done+requeued''.
.PP
The
.B Priority
parameter controls the priority to assign to the job.  This
overrides any priority requested by the submitter.
.PP
The
.B Proxy
parameter controls to which host the job should be delivered for 
transmission.  This should be a hostname or IP address and may include
the modem group name when formatted as the host option for
.IR sendfax (1).
The proxy
server should have login access permitted for the originating server
without a password if
.B ProxyUser
and
.B ProxyPass
are not also provided.  Caution: actions such as job removal and job
modification (such as those done by
.IR faxrm (1)
or
.IR faxalter (1))
will not currently
propagate to the proxy and is a matter for future development.  Therefore,
such actions should be made on the proxy server directly.
.PP
The
.B ProxyMailbox
and
.B ProxyNotification
identify the e-mail address and the notification mechanism for the proxied
job.  (This does not change the e-mail address or the notification mechanism for
the originating job.)
.PP
The
.B ProxyJobTag
sets the jobtag for the job on the proxy server.  By default this is the jobid
for the originating job.
.PP
The
.B ProxyLogMode
parameter specifies the file mode protection that should be used for the
logs that are able to be retrieved from the proxy server.  (In order to
retrieve logs the proxy server must permit it.)
.PP
The
.B ProxyTries
and
.B ProxyDials
parameters specify the number of respective attempts that the proxy server 
should make.  The default is -1, and any value less than 1 indicates
that the proxy server should be delegated all remaining attempts.
.PP
The
.B ProxyReconnects
parameter specifies the number of reconnections that should be made to the
proxy server in the event that the network connection is lost.  Attempts are
made no sooner than 60 seconds apart, so to tolerate a network outage of
30 minutes
.B ProxyReconnects
should be set to ``30'' or higher.
.PP
The
.B RejectNotice
parameter controls whether or not to reject
jobs to the destination.
Jobs that are
rejected are done so
without placing a phone call and the associated message
is returned to the job submitter.
This facility can be used to disallow calling sensitive
phone numbers; for example
.sp .5
.nf
.ft C
    RejectNotice: "Calls to emergency numbers are not permitted"
.ft P
.fi
.PP
The
.B RewriteFaxname
and
.B RewriteFaxnumber
parameters allow the ``faxname'' and ``faxnumber'' parameters in the job
request file to be replaced and rewritten with the given values.
.PP
The
.B VRes
parameter controls the vertical resolution. Possible values are 98 (normal resolution, equivalent to
.I sendfax
-l option) and 196 (fine resolution, equivalent to
.I sendfax
-m option).
.PP
The
.B UseColor
parameter is used to enable or disable the usage of color as supported by the receiver. Possible values are 1 (enable color usage, equivalent to
.I sendfax
-O usecolor:yes option) and 0 (disable color usage).
This parameter may be used in conjunction with 
.I DesiredDF: 6
in order to abort fax transmission if the receiver does not support color facsimile.
.PP
The
.B UseXVRes
parameter is used to enable or disable the usage of extended resolutions supported by the receiver. Possible values are 1 (enable extended resolutions usage, equivalent to
.I sendfax
-G option) and 0 (disable extended resolutions usage).
This parameter supersedes the usage of
.B VRes.
.PP
In addition to the above parameters, any other parameters that are specified
are automatically accumulated and passed to programs invoked by
.IR faxq ,
such as
.I faxsend
and
.IR pagesend .
(Note that in a batched-jobs instance that these parameters will apply to all
jobs in the batch.)
This is a convenient mechanism for defining configuration parameters
for all modems without having to modify each modem-specific configuration
file.  For example,
.sp .5
.nf
.ft C
    SessionTracing: 0x4f
.ft P
.fi
.PP
This mechanism also makes it easy to control transmit-related parameters
according to the destination phone number.  For example, to disable use
of 
.SM ECM
and restrict the transmit speed when placing
international phone calls one might use:
.sp .5
.nf
.ft C
    DesiredBR: 3
    DesiredEC: 0
    DesiredDF: 1
.ft P
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
Change (overlap) MaxDials parameter to 3 for all outgoing calls.
.PP
1. Create file bin/jobcontrol with the following content:
.sp .5
.nf
.ft C
   #!/bin/sh
   echo "MaxDials: \"3\""
   exit 0
.ft P
.fi
.PP
2. Ensure that bin/jobcontrol is marked as executable:
.sp .5
.nf
.ft C
    chmod +x bin/jobcontrol
.ft P
.fi
.PP
3. Add parameter JobControlCmd to
.IR hylafax-config (5F);
(etc/config) file:
.sp .5
.nf
.ft C
    JobControlCmd: bin/jobcontrol
.ft P
.fi
.PP
The controls program will likely need to refer to the
sendq file corresponding to the job in order to obtain
information such as the number being dialed, the job owner, or
the number of send attempts.  For this purpose the parseQfile
function has been placed in bin/common-functions to assist
in this.  For example:
.nf
.ft C

    #!/bin/sh
    . etc/setup.cache
    . bin/common-functions
    QFILE=sendq/q$1
    SetupPrivateTmp
    parseQfile
    case "$number-$owner-$tottries" in
        5551212-lee-3) echo "Class1ECMSupport: no";;
        *-sam-*) echo "LocalIdentifier: +1.800.555.1212";;
        911-*) echo "RejectNotice: \\"Calls to 911 are not permitted\\"";;
    esac
    exit 0

.ft P
.fi
.SH NOTES
.B JobControlCmd
is run each time the job moves into the run-queue ("READY" state), and all
output is effective on each instance.  If the administrator wishes to vary
output based on the attempt sequence, then the q-file values should be
consulted in the process.  Furthermore, blind usage of options such as
.B Priority
could be confusing as it would essentially prevent a job from increasing or
decreasing in job priority as usually expected after call attempts.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hylafax-config (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR re_format (7).
