.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/flexkit/fax/man/man4/RCS/info.4f,v 1.1 91/05/11 16:46:44 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH INFO 4F "April 29, 1991"
.SH NAME
info \- remote facsimile machine capability data base
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B info
subdirectory in the
.I FlexFAX
spooling area holds information about the capabilities
of facsimile machines that have been called.
One file exists for each machine, with the filename
created from the remote machine's fully-qualified
phone number.
Capabilities files have a simple
.SM ASCII
format.
Each line is of the form
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
\fBtag\fP: \fIvalue\fP
.br
.sp .5
where a \fItag\fP identifies a capability and a \fIvalue\fP
is either a string, number, or boolean value.
The following capabilities are recorded:
.in +0.5i
.sp .5
.ta \w'supports2DEncoding    'u +\w'boolean    'u
.nf
\fBTag	Type	Description\fP
supportsHighRes	boolean	accepts 196 line/inch images
supports2DEncoding	boolean	accepts Group 2D encoding
maxPageWidth	number	maximum page width in pixels
maxPageLength	number	maximum page length in millimeters
.fi
.in -0.5i
.PP
The facsimile server,
.IR faxd (1M),
uses the information stored in this directory when
preparing documents for transmission.
If a remote machine's capabilities are known, then
documents are prepared according to the capabilities.
Otherwise, documents are prepared using only the
minimum capabilities required by the Group 3
standard\(em 1D encoding, 98 lines/inch, standard
A4 page dimensions.
.I Faxd
automatically creates and updates entries in this
directory, as required.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxd (1M)
