.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/flexkit/fax/man/man4/RCS/sendq.4f,v 1.1 91/05/11 16:46:54 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH SENDQ 4F "April 29, 1991"
.SH NAME
sendq/q* \- 
.I FlexFAX
facsimile transmission job description
.SH DESCRIPTION
Files in the
.B sendq
directory specify facsimile transmission job requests.
These files are usually created by
.IR faxd.recv (1M),
when submitting a job on behalf of
.IR sendfax (1).
.PP
Job description files are 
.SM ASCII
files with lines of the form
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
\fBtag\fP: \fIvalue\fP
.br
.sp .5
where a \fItag\fP is one of the identifiers described below
and a \fIvalue\fP is either a string or number.
If a line
.I begins
with the ``#'' character, it is ignored.
String values start at the first non-blank character
after the ``:'' and continue to the end of the line.
Numeric values are either decimal integers or floating point numbers.
.PP
The following table lists the possible tags and the required
type of the associated value.
.sp .5
.in +0.5i
.ta \w'pagelength    'u +\w'integer    'u
.nf
\fBTag	Type	Description\fP
killjob	string	\fIat\fP\|(1) job identifier for killing job
killtime	string	when to give up trying to send facsimile
mailaddr	string	email address of sender
notify	string	email notification specification
npages	integer	number of pages in facsimile
number	string	phone number to call
pagelength	float	facsimile page length (millimeters)
pagewidth	integer	facsimile page width (pixels)
postscript	string	postscript document specification
resolution	float	vertical resolution of facsimile
sender	string	identity of sender
sendjob	string	\fIat\fP\|(1) job identifier for delayed send job
tiff	string	\s-2TIFF\s0 document specification
tts	integer	time to send facsimile
.fi
.in -0.5i
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.TP
.B killjob
The identifier returned by
.IR at (1)
for the job that is to
.I kill
this transmit request.
Each facsimile transmission request has a
timeout associated with it.
If the transmission is not successful before the timeout
expires, the request is aborted.
.IR faxd (1M)
uses
.I at
to implement timeouts by submitting a
.I "kill job"
that removes the submitted job from the queue of jobs to process.
The value of
.I killjob
identifies the 
.I at
job submitted to timeout this request.
.TP
.B killtime
The time to kill this job, expressed in syntax acceptable to
.IR at .
Note that this time is specified relative to time of the
first attempt to transmit the facsimile.
.TP
.B mailaddr
The electronic mail address to which notification
messages should be directed.
.TP
.B notify
A specification of whether the sender wants
notification: whenever the job is requeued after
a failed attempt to transmit (``\c
.IR "when requeued" ''),
when the job is completed (``\c
.IR "when done" ''),
or not at all (``\c
.IR "none" '').
.TP
.B npages
The number of pages in the facsimile, including
the cover page, that are still to be transmitted.
.TP
.B number
The phone number of the destination facsimile machine.
.TP
.B pagelength
The desired page length in millimeters.
.TP
.B pagewidth
The desired page width in pixels.
.TP
.B postscript
The value is a pathname to a file containing a
PostScript\(tm document to send.
Files must be owned by the 
.IR "fax user" .
Pathnames must be relative to the top of the
.I FlexFAX
spooling directory and not include ``..''.
.TP
.B resolution
The desired vertical resolution in lines per inch.
This value should be either 98 or 196.
.TP
.B sender
The ``full name'' of the sender of the facsimile.
.TP
.B sendjob
The identifier returned by
.IR at (1)
for the job that is to do a delayed submission
(if any).
.TP
.B tiff
The value is a pathname to a file containing a
.SM TIFF
Class F document to send.
Files must be owned by the 
.IR "fax user" .
Pathnames must be relative to the top of the
.I FlexFAX
spooling directory and not include ``..''.
.TP
.B tts
The time to send the facsimile.
If this value is non-zero, it is number of seconds
since 00:00:00 GMT, January 1, 1970.
Otherwise, a value of 0 is interpreted to mean
transmit immediately.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR faxd (1M),
.IR faxd.recv (1M)
