.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/flexkit/fax/man/man4/RCS/tsi.4f,v 1.1 91/05/11 16:47:01 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH TSI 4F "April 29, 1991"
.SH NAME
tsi \- Transmission Subscriber Identification (\c
.SM TSI\c
) database
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.B etc/tsi
in the
.I FlexFAX
spooling area contains a collection of patterns.
These patters define the set of remote facsimile machines
that are permitted to send facsimile to a host; if the
.B QualifyTSI
parameter is enabled in a modem configuration file.
.PP
Patterns are one per line and must conform to the
regular expressions syntax supported by
.IR regcmp (3X).
Comments may be included; they are introduced with the ``#''
character and extend to the end of the line.
Any trailing white space in a pattern is ignored (for convenience
when comments are used).
.PP
Note that regular expression patterns should be written to
match a
.SM TSI
exactly.
That is, patterns should be of the form:
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
\fC^<pattern>$\fP
.PP
where the ``^'' and ``$'' characters are used to
specify the start and end of the matching
.SM TSI.
Additionally, regular expression patterns should handle
white space that may appear in known locations.  For example,
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
\fC^([+]1){1}[ .-]*415[ .-]*555[ .-]*1212.*$\fP
.PP
matches the following
.SM TSI
strings:
.sp .5
.nf
.in +0.5i
\fC+1.415.555.1212\fP
\fC    415  555  1212\fP
\fC1-415-555-1212\fP
.in -0.5i
.fi
.PP
Finally, note that regular expressions can be used to specify
many
.SM TSI
with one pattern.
.SH NOTES
It would be nice if
.SM TSI
that were to be matched against were placed in some
canonical form (e.g. remove white space and white space-like
characters).
This is, however, problematic, because many facsimile
machines permit any printable
.SM ASCII
string to be sent as a
.SM TSI.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxd (1M),
.IR regcmp (3X),
.IR config (4F)
