.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/flexkit/fax/man/man1/RCS/faxalter.1,v 1.1 91/05/31 13:06:56 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH FAXALTER 1 "May 29, 1991"
.SH NAME
faxalter \- alter parameters of a facsimile job queued for transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxalter
[
.B \-h
.I hostname
] [
.B \-a
.I tts
] [
.B \-n
.I notify
] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-DQR
]
.IR jobid ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Faxalter
alters parameters of one or more facsimile jobs that
are queued for transmission.
At present only two parameters can be altered;
the time to send a job and the notification scheme.
A 
.I jobid
is the number printed by
.IR sendfax (1)
when a job is queued for transmission.
This number can also be obtained from
.IR faxstat (1).
.PP
The
.B \-a
option is used to specify a new time to send a job.
The syntax for specifying a time is the same as used
by
.IR sendfax (1)
(and
.IR at (1)).
The
.B \-p
option, specifies that the jobs should be
.IR pushed ;
that is, they should be sent immediately.
.PP
The
.B \-n
option is used to select a notification scheme to
use for the specified jobs.
Possible schemes are:
``none'' for no notification (default),
``when done'' for notification when the job is completed,
``when requeued'' for notification when the job is requeued
after a failed transmission attempt.
The
.BR \-Q ,
.BR \-D ,
and
.B \-R
options are shorthand for these notification schemes,
respectively.
One can also leave off ``when'' when using the
.B \-n
option; e.g.,
.B \-n
done
is the same as
.B \-n
``when done''.
.PP
Users can only alter jobs that they
have queued.
(Except the
.I fax
user who can alter any job.)
.PP
By default,
.I faxalter
contacts the facsimile server on the host specified
in the
.B FAXSERVER
environment variable.
This can be overridden with the
.B \-h
option.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B "Job %s not altered: it was not queued."
The specified job was not found in the server's queue.
.PP
.B "Job %s not altered: it is being sent."
The job is being processed by the server and can not be altered.
.PP
.B "Job %s not altered: open failed; check SYSLOG."
The server was unable to do some necessary operation on the 
remote host and so could not alter the job.
More information about what went wrong can be found in the
.IR syslogd (1M)
log file on the server's machine (usually
.IR /usr/adm/SYSLOG ).
.PP
.B "Job %s not altered: could not establish server process owner."
A request was made by the ``fax'' user to alter
a job that it did submit.
This request was not accepted because
the server was unable to deduce the identity under which
it was executing.  That is, there was no password file
entry for the server's effective user id.
This (usually) indicates that the entry in the file
.I /usr/etc/inetd.conf
on the remove machine is setup wrong; see
.IR faxd.recv (1M)
for more information.
.PP
.B "Job %s not altered: you neither own it nor are the fax user."
A request was made to alter a job that the user does not own
(and the user is not the ``fax'' user).
.SH BUGS
It is not possible to alter a job that the server is
actively transmitting (or trying to transmit).
.I Faxalter
must be run on the same host on which the job was
submitted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR faxrm (1),
.IR faxstat (1),
.IR faxd.recv (1M)
