.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/flexkit/fax/man/man1/RCS/faxcover.1,v 1.2 91/06/04 21:36:13 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH FAXCOVER 1 "June 4, 1991"
.SH NAME
faxcover \- generate a cover page for an outgoing facsimile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxcover
[
.B \-n
.I dest-number
] [
.B \-t
.I dest-name
] [
.B \-f
.IR from-name
] [
.B \-l
.I dest-location
] [
.B \-v
.I dest-phone
] [
.B \-c
.I comments
] [
.B \-p
.I page-count
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Faxcover
generates an Encapsulated PostScript\(tm (\c
.SM EPS\c
) facsimile cover page document on the standard output.
The cover page fills an 8.5" by 11" page and
is created according to the information supplied
on the command line and a 
.I "cover sheet template"
file.
.PP
.I Faxcover
is normally invoked by the
.I sendfax
utility to generate the cover page for each outgoing facsmile.
.PP
.I Faxcover
works by creating a PostScript dictionary
that contains definitions for the appropriate
pieces of information one might find on a facsimile
cover page.
Specifically, the following names are defined:
.sp .5
.nf
.in +0.5i
.ta \w'\fIfrom-voice-number    'u
\fIto\fP	destination person
\fIto-company\fP	destination company
\fIto-location\fP	destination geographic location
\fIto-voice-number\fP	person's voice phone number
\fIto-fax-number\fP	destination fax phone number
\fIcomments\fP	arbitrary comments
\fIpage-count\fP	# pages not counting cover page
\fIfrom	sender\fP person
\fIfrom-company\fP	sender's company
\fIfrom-location\fP	sender geographic location
\fIfrom-fax-number\fP	sender's fax phone number
\fIfrom-voice-number\fP	sender's voice phone number
.in -0.5i
.fi
.PP
If information is unavailable for an item, the appropriate
symbol is defined to be a null string.
.PP
Following the definition prologue, a prototype cover sheet template file
is copied.
This file is expected to be a PostScript program
that uses the supplied definitions to generate a
cover page.
The template must include a
.B showpage
operator to cause the page to be imaged.
The above definitions will be defined in the
.IR "current dictionary" .
A trailing
.B end
operator is supplied by
.IR faxcover ,
so any manipulation of the dictionary stack should
leave the current dictionary on the top of the
stack on completion.
.PP
The template file is named
.IR faxcover.ps .
.I Faxcover
looks first for this file in the home directory
of the sender.
If no such file is present, then it looks in the
directory where the
.I FlexFAX
client applications are installed.
If no template file is located,
.I faxcover
will not generate a cover page.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complaints about not being able to locate a template file.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/local/bin/fax/faxcover.ps    'u
~/.faxdb	personal fax number database
.br
/usr/local/bin/fax/faxcover.ps	default cover page template
.SH BUGS
Information not supplied on the command line is
currently obtained from the
.I ~/.faxdb
file.
See
.IR faxcomp (1)
for a description of its format.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxcomp (1),
.IR sendfax (1)
