.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/flexkit/fax/man/man1/RCS/faxd.1m,v 1.2 91/06/04 21:35:53 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH FAXD 1M "June 4, 1991"
.SH NAME
/usr/etc/faxd \- facsimile modem server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/faxd
[
.B \-m
.I device
] [
.B \-q
.I queue-dir
] [
.B \-12
] [
.B \-i
.I requeue-interval
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Faxd
is the central processing agent of the
.I FlexFAX
facsimile service.
One
.I faxd
process is started for each facsimile modem on a machine
(typically by
.IR init (1M)).
.I Faxd
listens to its facsimile modem for phone calls
and to two
.SM FIFO
files on which it accepts command directives.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.B \-m
option is used to specify the terminal device that the
facsimile modem is attached to.
The default device is
.I /dev/ttym2
(for historical reasons).
.PP
The
.B \-q
option can be used to specify a spooling area in which
to operate other than
.IR /usr/spool/fax .
.PP
The
.B \-i
option can be used to specify the interval, in seconds,
that a job should be held between transmission attempts.
By default, this interval is 15*60 seconds (i.e. 15 minutes).
.PP
The
.B \-1
and
.B \-2
options control whether or not the server will utilize
the optional 2-dimensional Group 3 facsimile encoding.
By default,
.I faxd
will negotiate to use 2-d encoding.
This can also be explicitly requested with the
.B \-2
option.
The
.B \-1
option will suppress this negotiation.
.SH FILES
Consult
.IR flexfax (4F)
for a complete discussion of the structure and
content of the spooling area.
.SH BUGS
While
.I faxd
is processing a job, it does not respond to
commands.
This means, in particular, that there is no
way to cleanly abort an operation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxadmin (1M),
.IR flexfax (4F),
.IR config (4F),
.IR hosts (4F),
.IR info (4F),
.IR recvq (4F),
.IR sendq (4F),
.IR xferlog (4F),
