.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/flexkit/fax/man/man1/RCS/faxstat.1,v 1.3 91/05/31 13:08:26 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH FAXSTAT 1 "April 29, 1991"
.SH NAME
faxstat \- display facsimile server status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxstat
[
.B \-h
.I hostname
] [
.B \-u
.I username
] [
.B \-a
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-D
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Faxstat
reports the status of a fascimile server, including
the status of the send and receive queues.
Server status information indicates if the
server is currently running and the facsimile phone number that
is used for sending and receiving facsimile.
The send queue report gives the status of facsimile jobs
queued for transmission.
This information includes the job identifier and
whether or not the job is currently being processed.
The receive queue report lists the facsimile documents
that have been received and are awaiting delivery.
.PP
When invoked without options,
.I faxstat
reports status of jobs queued by the current user,
and the status of the receive queue.
Status of jobs submitted by specific users can be obtained with the
.B \-u
option.
Status of all jobs queued for transmission
is reported if the
.B \-a
option is supplied.
If the
.B \-s
option is specified, only send queue status is reported.
The receive queue status can also be explicitly requested
with the
.B \-r
option.
.PP
By default
.I faxstat
reports status for the facsimile servers located on
the host specified in the
.B FAXSERVER
environment variable.
Alternate hosts may be given with one or more uses of the
.B \-h
option.
.\".PP
.\"If the
.\".B \-t
.\"option is supplied,
.\".I faxstat
.\"will report the status of any host specified with
.\"the
.\".B FAXSERVER
.\"environment variable, as well as
.\"any servers running locally.
.PP
The
.B \-D
option is used for debugging
.IR faxstat ;
it causes
.I faxstat
to obtain protocol information from the standard input,
rather than from a server process.
.SH BUGS
Should display status information about jobs
have been queued for retransmission because of an error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR faxalter (1),
.IR faxrm (1)
