.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/flexkit/fax/man/man1/RCS/faxview.1,v 1.1 91/05/08 17:38:56 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH FAXVIEW 1 "April 29, 1991"
.SH NAME
faxview \- view a
.SM TIFF
facsimile file on a Silicon Graphics system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxview
[
.B \-b
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B -u
] [
.IR file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Faxview
is an interactive,
page-oriented, display program for
.SM TIFF
Class F facsimile image files.
The user is presented with a fixed-size window
that holds a scaled greyscale rendition of each page.
A popup menu can be used to select from pages
in a multi-page document and to invoke a program
to print one or more pages on a printer.
Controls are also provided for controlling the
contrast and orientation of pages.
.PP
By default
.I faxview
tries to use a window suitable for displaying an 86 dots/inch
rendition of each page of facsimile data.
On systems with a 14" monitor, however, 
.I faxview
will automatically reduce the window to display a 66 dots/inch
image.
These
.I big
and
.I small
renditions can also be explicitly selected with the
.B \-b
and
.B \-s
options, repsectively.
.PP
By default,
.I faxview
expects the file specified on the command line to be a
.SM TIFF
Class F facsimile file, as generated by the
.I FlexFAX
software.
If the
.B \-u
option is specified, 
.I faxview
will interpret the standard input as a
.IR uuencode 'd
.SM TIFF
image and do the appropriate work to view the image.
This facility is useful, for example, for viewing
received facsimile that are delivered through the
mail system.
.PP
.I Faxview
provides control over the contrast of the
rendered pages.
A contrast scale can be be selected from a linear
scale (lightest) or a variety of weighted
exponential scales (70% is darkest).
The default contrast is an unweighted exponential scale.
.PP
Pages that arrive upside down or backwards
can be interactively reoriented.
If a page is reoriented, it is displayed in its
reoriented form each time it is selected.
.PP
The popup menu is attached to the right mouse button.
Clicking the left mouse button selects the
.I "next page"
in a multi-page document (if there is one).
Clicking the middle mouse button selects the
.I "previous page"
in a multi-page document (if there is one).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Some messages about malformed 
.SM TIFF
images come from the
.SM TIFF
library.
These messages should not occur when
.I faxview
is used to convert files generated by the
.I FlexFAX
software (e.g. received facsimile).
.PP
Various messages about badly formatted facsimile images
may be generated by transmission errors in received
facsimile.
.I Faxview
attempts to recover from such data errors by resynchronizing
decoding at the end of the current scanline.
This can result in long horizontal black lines in the displayed page.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/local/bin/fax/fax2ps    'u
/usr/local/bin/fax/fax2ps	for printing
.SH BUGS
Some 2D-encoded images are not correctly decoded.
.I Faxview
only handles straightforward reorientation of pages.
For example, 90 degree rotations are not supported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR fax2ps (1),
.IR uuencode (1C),
.IR libtiff (3)
