.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/flexkit/fax/man/man1/RCS/ps2fax.1,v 1.1 91/05/08 17:39:00 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH PS2FAX 1 "April 29, 1991"
.SH NAME
ps2fax \- image PostScript\(tm for facsimile transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ps2fax
[
.B \-12
] [
.B \-o
.I output
] [
.B \-w
.I pagewidth
] [
.B \-l
.I pagelength
] [
.B \-r
.I vertres
] [
.IR files ...
]
.br
.B /usr/spool/fax/bin/ps2fax
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ps2fax
takes PostScript input and generates a
.SM TIFF
Class F image file suitable for facsimile transmission.
It is usually invoked by a facsimile server process indirectly
through the command
.BR /usr/spool/fax/bin/ps2fax .
On
.SM IRIX
version 4.0-based systems,
this application is based on Adobe's Display PostScript software.
.PP
Input files containing PostScript may be specified on the
command line.
If none are given, then
.I ps2fax
will read from standard input.
.PP
By default,
.I ps2fax
will generate a 98 line/inch output document whose
page width is 1728 pixels and page length is 297 mm
(a standard A4 page at low resolution).
Horizontal resolution is always 204 dpi.
The
.B \-r
option can be used to specifiy an alternate vertical
resolution (typically 196 lpi for 
.I fine
resolution).
The page width and page length can be specified with the
.B \-w
and
.B \-l
options, respectively.
Note that page width is specified in pixels, while
page length is specified in millimeters.
.PP
The
.B \-o
option is used to specify the name of the output file.
If no filename is given, the output is placed in a file
named
.BR ps.fax .
.PP
By default, output is compressed using the standard
Group 3 1D encoding scheme, with
.SM EOL
codes padded to byte boundaries.
If the
.B \-2
option is specified, output is encoded with the optional
Group 3 2D encoding scheme (\c
.SM EOL
codes are still padded to byte boundaries).
1D encoding can also be explicitly specified with the
.B \-1
option.
.SH "RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT"
Before user-supplied PostScript is passed
to the PostScript interpreter, a limited number of
operators are defined.
These operators are operators commonly found in a
LaserWriter printer and (sometimes) generated by Macintosh-based
applications.
.PP
The default environment includes support for the following
Adobe Type 1 fonts:
.sp .5
.in +0.5i
.ta \w'Helvetica-Narrow-BoldOblique    'u
.nf
AvantGarde-Book	Helvetica-Narrow-Oblique
AvantGarde-BookOblique	Lithos-Bold
AvantGarde-Demi	NewCenturySchlbk-Bold
AvantGarde-DemiOblique	NewCenturySchlbk-BoldItalic
Bookman-Demi	NewCenturySchlbk-Italic
Bookman-DemiItalic	NewCenturySchlbk-Roman
Bookman-Light	Palatino-Bold
Bookman-LightItalic	Palatino-BoldItalic
Courier	Palatino-Italic
Courier-Bold	Palatino-Roman
Courier-BoldOblique	StoneSerif
Courier-Oblique	Symbol
Helvetica	Tekton
Helvetica-Bold	Times-Bold
Helvetica-BoldOblique	Times-BoldItalic
Helvetica-Oblique	Times-Italic
Helvetica-Narrow	Times-Roman
Helvetica-Narrow-Bold	ZapfChancery-MediumItalic
Helvetica-Narrow-BoldOblique	ZapfDingbats
.in -0.5i
.fi
Note that this is the same set of fonts supported by the
.SM DPS
extension to the X server.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/DPS/default.dps_vm    'u
.nf
/usr/lib/DPS/default.dps_vm	startup VM file
/usr/lib/DPS/dpstartup.ps	PostScript code read at startup
/usr/lib/DPS/outline	Type 1 fonts
/usr/lib/DPS/prebuilt	prebuilt versions of fonts
.fi
.SH BUGS
Output from the PostScript interpreter is encoded
according to the Display PostScript binary encoding
protocol.
.PP
No prebuilt bitmap fonts are currently available.
This would greatly improve legibility at low resolutions,
as the rendering of outline fonts at 98 lpi is particularly
poor.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR faxd (1M),
.IR flexfax (4F)
