.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/flexkit/fax/man/man1/RCS/sgi2fax.1,v 1.1 91/05/08 17:39:09 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH SGI2FAX 1 "April 29, 1991"
.SH NAME
sgi2fax \- convert a Silicon Graphics image file for facsimile transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sgi2fax
[
.B \-12
] [
.B \-lm
] [
.B \-r
.I %red
] [
.B \-g
.I %green
] [
.B \-b
.I %blue
] [
.B \-o
.I output-file
] [
.B \-v
]
.IR files ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sgi2fax
is used to convert Silicon Graphics format images to
bilevel
.SM TIFF
Class F images in preparation for transmission as facsimile.
.I Sgi2fax
is not normally invoked directly, but as a result of
supplying an
.SM SGI
image file to
.IR sendfax (1).
.PP
Images are converted by scaling them to fill an 8.43" by 11"
region centered on a standard A4 page.
Each 
.SM RGB
pixel
.I p
is converted to greyscale according to:
.nf
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
\fIp\fP\dr\u * %r + \fIp\fP\dg\u * %g + \fIp\fP\db\u * %b
.sp .5
.fi
where %r, %g, and %b default to 30, 59, and 11, respectively.
Greyscale images are passed through a high pass filter
and dithered to a bilevel image.
The resultant images are written as a 
.SM TIFF
Class F document.
.PP
By default, output has a horizontal resolution of 204 dpi
and a vertical resolution of 98 lines/inch.
The vertical resolution can be doubled with the
.B \-m
option.
The
.B \-l
option specifies the default, 98 lpi, resolution.
.PP
The
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-g ,
and
.B \-b
options can be used to specify alternate percentages to use
in converting color values to greyscale.
.PP
By default,
.I sgi2fax
will write the output to a file named
.IR sgi.fax .
An alternate name can be specified with the
.B \-o
option.
.PP
By default, the output image is encoded using Group 3 1D encoding.
1D or 2D encoding can be specified with the
.B \-1
and
.B \-2
options, respectively.
.SH BUGS
There should be a way to specify the margins and the
area on the page where the image is to be placed.
There is no way to generate anything but an A4-sized page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR flexfax (4F)
